well it's the holiday season and for a
special occasion
I love foie gras this is a foie gras
it's a giant overstuffed fat liver of a
duck or a goose in this case it's a duck
it's from Canada because the Peter nuts
have made it so it's very difficult to
grow these in the States and by the way
if you're a peanut nut you can just
switch off right now I love this stuff I
don't care what anyone thinks I'm going
to eat it occasionally this is about a
two-pound lobe it's about 100 bucks
worth of liver it doesn't taste at all
like liver basically it's meat flavored
butter if you were to cook this in an
oven slowly all the fat would drain out
of it and you'd end up with a piece
about the size of a grape because it's
almost all fat there's very little work
to do on one of these things you can see
pretty clearly it comes in two pieces so
you can break the pieces apart or you
can just slice it straight across if you
slice across that's great they may fall
apart and if you want one very even
piece you may find you want to slice it
lengthwise I'm going to do a sort of a
combination of both by slicing it sort
of diagonally along with the crease
that's in here so that if in case the
pieces do sort of fall apart there's
minimal waste it did cost as I said
about $100 it's about 50 bucks a pound
however you're going to get a good 12 to
16 servings out of this thing so it's
not exactly what you would call
economical but it's not that hard
stopping the expensive either ah the
best way to cut is to use a long thin
knife like a carving knife and wash it
in hot water between cuts the hot blade
of the knife will cut right through it
like butter and make very nice clean
cuts so I'm going to fill up a picture
and use that to warm up my neck we made
four portions of this appetizer one of
these giant flaws would obviously make a
lot more than that the other thing to
remember is we're going to use all the
fat that comes off this to cook
everything else so we're doing it in a
skillet we're not going throw any of the
fat away but nice slice about a quarter
of an inch thick foie gras experts out
there will tell you
you need to clean the nerves and veins
out of this thing I think that's
completely unnecessary in a waste of
time and will actually ruin the way the
foie gras looks because you're going to
tear it up into pieces
so I have four very nice slices here
these don't need very much seasoning
except for just a little salt and pepper
I wouldn't put very much I will sprinkle
a little bit of my seasoned salt blend
and my seasoned pepper not much
that's that now also we have some very
thinly sliced shallots here shallots are
like little red onions they're sort of a
cross between a red onion and a garlic
they had a great flavor if you didn't
have shallots you could use red onion
best way to peel a shallot kind of
lengthwise because it's sometimes there
in a figure 8 shape and pull the entire
outer layer off and remember you're not
wasting that because you're gonna use it
for your soup stock because we've talked
about many times and I like the phone
I'm sauteing them I like to cut them
lengthwise does it really matter
probably not slicing them fin okay
couple more pieces to this and once all
the pieces are ready we'll get cooking
we're going to put some apple we're
going to sautee some apple nice thin
slices of apple this is a fairly crisp
firm textured apple that has a mixture
of tart and sweet this kind is called
Fuji you may have a different kind
available where you live use whatever
you like you want your pan hot but not
screeching hot because you could burn
the flop or overcook it and when you
overcook it it will melt down to nothing
foie gras goes in first you can see the
fat comes starts coming out immediately
maybe 30 seconds of on a side is all it
needs
can see just an unbelievable amount of
fat coming out we're going to use that
to our advantage so you can see the
color is just golden brown it's not
black it's not deep brown we're gonna
remove these to a plate whatever you do
do not drain these on paper towels
because then all the juice and all the
fat will go into the paper towel and you
won't be able to eat it
now into the fat we grill our bread on
both sides just getting the bread nice
and toasty okay breads nice and crispy
onto a plate
and then go the shallots
keep them moving so they don't burn and
although you want to turn the fire up
don't if you want you can add a little
touch of salt and a little pepper to the
onions shout again these seasoning mixes
are available on the web the recipes are
on the website if you don't want to make
them yourself usually happy to sell some
people shallots are starting to get
nicely brown they're not quite finished
yet so we'll move them off to the side
and put in our apples
all right just till the apples get soft
a little bit of color on them I think
we're ready to assemble so onto the
plate lovely piece of toast some of the
shallots nice piece of foie fantastic
little piece of apple pick this up and
eat it with your hands or eat it with a
knife and fork but however you need it a
fantastic special holiday appetizer
well gras on baguettes with shallots and
apples